to Lebanon now where a barrage of more
than 50 Rockets was fired from the south
into Northern
[Music]
Israel a series of explosions were seen
over the upper Galilee area as Israel
deployed its missile defense system to
intercept the Rockets people living near
the border with Lebanon were instructed
to remain near bomb
shelters the assassinations of Senor
Hezbollah commander in Lebanon and the
political leader of Hamas and Iran has
prompted Travel warnings and major
airlines to ground flights KLM Lanza
emirats Air France Turkish Airlines
Singapore Airlines and Swiss Airlines
are among the carriers to divert or
cancel flights to Israel Iran and
Lebanon our citizens of France the UK
Canada and the United States have all
been told to leave immediately the US
Embassy urged American citizens to book
any Ticket available and offered to help
fund urgent
travel well for more on this let's go
live to beut airport and speak to Ali
Hashim who is there for us and it seems
like there's a real sense of urgency for
many people there right now just how
tense is it
Ali well in fact many people want to
leave as soon as possible many because
as we know many libanese are immigrants
and some of them came for the summer
vacation so now is the right time for
them given the fact that there are a lot
of threats and and with many airlines
cancelling or with the disruptions in
the flights so people would want to
leave as soon as possible and before the
uh retaliation starts now everyone is
waiting when this is going to happen and
no one knows when this is going to
happen that's that's why if we go inside
the airport now we're not allowed in but
if we go inside the airport the flights
that are arriving the flights that are
departing but also there are flights
that that are cancelled and there's a
kind of disruption that is very uh clear
for uh everyone now as you said in the
intro many countries and it was really
uh uh very significant the warning of
the United States statement asking the
uh uh US citizens to take any flight
available whether it's going to their
own uh Final Destination or not just to
take to grab a ticket and leave also the
French are calling on the citizens to
leave as soon as possible because of the
military uh threats surrounding Lebanon
and uh Ali how are Lebanese politicians
reacted to this escalation just over the
last 3 or 4
days well you know the Lebanese
politicians gener let's talk about
Lebanese government the prime minister
said that Lebanon has the right to uh
retaliate to any uh aggression however
with respect to what's happening you
know in Lebanon currently it's a country
without a president a caretaker prime
minister there's a kind of just like the
disruption in the airport there is a
disruption in the governance in this
country and that's why you don't see a
lot of uh uh government officials
talking and reacting uh for example a
few days ago the uh minister of
Transportation was saying that just like
we have disruption here in beirut's
airport there is disruption in boron
airport but this doesn't doesn't really
help in changing the situation or in uh
serving people's uh uh
needs okay thank you so much uh for the
latest there Ali Ali Hashim for us in
bayroot make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz